SIMCor Shiny App
Overview
SIMCor is an advanced Shiny application for statistical analysis, with a focus on validating and applying virtual cohorts. This tool is designed for researchers, data analysts, and academicians who require rigorous data analysis and visualization in fields like biomedical research, statistical modeling, and data science.

Key Features
Data Import and Validation: Upload and validate virtual and real datasets in CSV format.
Advanced Statistical Analysis: Includes univariate, bivariate, and multivariate comparisons, along with variability assessments.
Interactive Visualizations: Dynamic plots using ggplot2 and plotly.
Report Generation: Export analysis reports in PDF format.
Bootstrap Analysis: For variability assessments and comparisons.
Prerequisites
Before starting, ensure you have the following installed:

R and RStudio: Download R and RStudio.
Shiny Package: Install the Shiny framework by running:
R
Copy
Edit
install.packages("shiny")
Installation
To set up and run the SIMCor Shiny app locally:

Clone the Repository:
Clone this repository to your local machine or download it as a ZIP file and extract it.

Open the Project:
Open the RStudio project file (if provided) or the app.R file in RStudio.

Install Dependencies:
Run the following command in RStudio to install required packages:

R
Copy
Edit
install.packages(c("shiny", "readxl", "data.table", "ggplot2", "plotly", "reshape2", 
                   "corrplot", "GGally", "boot", "dplyr", "shinydashboard"))
Load the App:
Open the server.R and ui.R files (or app.R) and click the Run App button in RStudio, or use:

R
Copy
Edit
shiny::runApp()
Data Requirements
Dataset Specifications
Format: CSV files.
Structure: Datasets should follow the specific structure provided in the sample/template files.
Example Dataset
This app supports the analysis and comparison of virtual and real datasets. For example:

A study by Verstraeten et al. (2023) validated synthetic aortic valve stenosis geometries using in vivo data. Datasets from this study are available at 4TU.ResearchData.
Using the App
Navigation
The app contains modules for validation, analysis, and comparison of datasets. Use the tabs and buttons to navigate through the interface.

Uploading Data
Upload your datasets through the file upload inputs provided.

Interactive Analysis
Analyze data interactively with:

Statistical Tools: Summary statistics, correlations, variability assessments.
Visualization Options: Heatmaps, scatter plots, and more.
Reporting
Generate and download PDF reports summarizing your analysis.

Functionalities
Validation and Application of Virtual Cohorts
Context of Use (CoU): Describes the role and scope of the computational model.
Question of Interest (QoI): Defines the specific question or decision being addressed.
These elements are stored as metadata and included in statistical reports.
Validation Techniques
Univariate Distributions:

Calculate mean, standard deviation, max, and min values.
Visualize with scatter and box plots.
Bivariate Correlations:

Compare Spearman correlation coefficients with heatmaps.
Multivariate Analysis:

Compare variability metrics across datasets.
General Information
Name: SIMCor (In-Silico Testing and Validation of Cardiovascular Implantable Devices).
Version: v0.1.0
Release Date: 2023
Creators:
T. Khorchani (ECRIN)
P.E. Verde (Heinrich Heine University and University Hospital Düsseldorf)
C. Ohmann (ECRIN)
References
Verstraeten S, Hoeijmakers M, Tonino P, et al. Generation of synthetic aortic valve stenosis geometries for in silico trials. Int J Numer Meth Biomed Engng. 2023. doi:10.1002/cnm.3778.
Efron, B. & Tibshirani, R. (1993). An Introduction to the Bootstrap. Chapman & Hall.
Haddad T., Himes A., Thompson L., et al. (2017). Incorporation of stochastic engineering models as prior information in Bayesian medical device trials. Journal of Biopharmaceutical Statistics, 27:6, 1089-1103.
Contact
For support or inquiries, contact:

Takoua Khorchani
takouakhorchani@gmail.com
